# Howework 5 (DNS)

Answer the following questions in the space provided. Submit your answers (a modified version of this file) as an attachment to the submission box. Consult the file **2.Wireshark_DNS_v7.0.pdf** if needed.

## Concepts
  - How DNS is organized?
  - What are the **resource records** maintained by each DNS server?
  - How to search DNS servers?
  - How to use `dig` and `nslookup`.
  - How DNS queries and resource recorded are transmitted?


## DNS and `dig` Tool
`dig` is a UNIX utility that can interact with DNS servers. We will use `dig` to explore the DNS domain hierarchy. (Read [Dig Command Examples](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/02/dig-command-examples/) for some examples.)
Start `CSC361-VM`. Open a terminal and enter the command:

    $ dig

This will request from your local namer server the list of all **root** name servers.

Q1. How many **root** name servers? What are they?
> 13
> j.root-servers.net.
> They are l.root-servers.net.; k.root-servers.net.; d.root-servers.net.; g.root-servers.net.; f.root-servers.net.; a.root-servers.net.; i.root-servers.net.; e.root-servers.net.; b.root-servers.net.; h.root-servers.net.; m.root-servers.net.; c.root-servers.net.
>

Q2. What is the IP address of the **name server** that provides these answers?
> 192.168.0.1
>
>

Enter the following shell command:

    $ dig NS ca

which requests from your local name server a list of all the name servers responsible for the `.ca` domain.


Q3. How many such name servers? What are they?
> 4
> any.ca-servers.ca.
> j.ca-servers.ca.
> c.ca-servers.ca.
> x.ca-servers.ca.
>

Enter the following shell command:

    $ dig @m.root-servers.net NS ca


which requests from one of the **root** name server a list of all the name servers responsible for the `.ca` domain.

Q4. Does this list look exactly the same as the answers in Q3?
> not exactly
>
>

We are going to **iteratively** investigate all the domain name servers in the DNS hierarchy. Our target hostname is `www.csc.uvic.ca`. There are several domains or subdomains in this hostname, i.e., `.ca`, `.uvic.ca`, `.csc.uvic.ca`.

Enter the following shell command

    $ dig NS ca

which will list all name servers responsible for the `.ca` domain.

Q3. What are they? (The same question as Q3.) 
> any.ca-servers.ca. 
> j.ca-servers.ca.
> c.ca-servers.ca.
> x.ca-servers.ca.
>

Now, take one of those listed name servers and enter:

    $ dig @<one of the named servers> NS uvic.ca

Essentially, we are asking one of the `.ca` root name servers all the namer servers responsible for `.uvic.ca` domain.


Q5. What the registered name servers responsible for `uvic.ca`? How many? What are there?
> There are 4
> ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns4.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns2.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns5.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns1.uvic.ca.

Now, repeat the command for `csc.uvic.ca` domain by asking one of the name servers in Q5.

    $ dig @<one of the named servers> NS csc.uvic.ca

Q6. What the registered name servers responsible for `csc.uvic.ca`? How many? What are there?
> There are 4
>;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns4.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns5.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns1.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns2.uvic.ca.>

Q7. List all the mail servers for google.com.
> ;; ANSWER SECTION:
> google.com.		120	IN	A	172.217.3.206

Q8. List all DNS record types about "uvic.ca", including A, AAAA, TXT, MX and NS.
> ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns4.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	ns5.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns1.uvic.ca.
> uvic.ca.		86400	IN	NS	dns2.uvic.ca.

> ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
> ns4.uvic.ca.		86400	IN	A	206.12.58.50
> ns5.uvic.ca.		86400	IN	A	206.12.58.52
> dns1.uvic.ca.		86400	IN	A	142.104.6.1
> dns2.uvic.ca.		86400	IN	A	142.104.80.2

## DNS and `nslookup` Tool

    nslookup www.ncu.edu.tw

Q9. Run `nslookup` to obtain the IP address of  `www.ncu.edu.tw`. What is the IP address of this web server?
> Name:	www.ncu.edu.tw
> Address: 140.115.17.82

    nslookup –type=NS ncu.edu.tw

Q10. Run `nslookup` to determine the authoritative DNS servers for `ncu.edu.tw`. What are they?
> ncu.edu.tw	nameserver = dns.ncu.edu.tw.
> ncu.edu.tw	nameserver = dns2.ncu.edu.tw.

    nslookup www.ncu.edu.tw <one of the name servers in Q10>

Q11. Run `nslookup` to one of the DNS servers obtained in last Question. What are the answers? Compare it against Q9.
> Name:	www.ncu.edu.tw
> Address: 140.115.17.82
> The answer is the same as one in Q9

    nslookup -type=MX yahoo.com

Q12. Query the mail servers for `yahoo.com` and `yahoo.ca`. What are the results?
> yahoo.com	mail exchanger = 1 mta6.am0.yahoodns.net.
> yahoo.com	mail exchanger = 1 mta5.am0.yahoodns.net.
> yahoo.com	mail exchanger = 1 mta7.am0.yahoodns.net.


## UDP and DNS
Now, we should use Wireshark to investigate what were sent from your computer when you use `dig` or `nslookup`.
- Start `CSC361-VM`.
- Open a terminal session.
- Flush your DNS cache. (Read [How To Flush Your DNS Cache](https://help.dreamhost.com/hc/en-us/articles/214981288-Flushing-your-DNS-cache-in-Mac-OS-X-and-Linux)).
- Start Wireshark with a capture filter `ip.addr == your_IP_address`.
- In your terminal, enter the `dig` or `nslookup` commands that you did earlier Q1 to Q3.
- Stop Wireshark but don't close.

Q13. Locate the DNS query and response messages. Are then sent over UDP or TCP?
> UDP

Q14. What is the destination port for the DNS query message? What is the source port of DNS response message?
> domain(53) as destination port for the query message and src port for the query response message
>

Q15. To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Compare it to Q1. Are these two IP addresses the same?
> yes
>
>

Q16. Examine the DNS **query** message. What `Type` of DNS query is it? Does the query message contain any _answers_?
> it is a UDP type of message
> it does not contain any answers

Q17. Examine the DNS **response** message. How many _answers_ are provided? What do each of these answers contain? (For example, answers in Q1.)
> there are 13 answers provided
> for each answer, it contains: type(e.g., NS), class(e.g., IN), and root server
>
